Task/doc updates (#1409)
LLNL/RAJA: docs/sphinx/dev_guide/ci.rst

Continuous Integration (CI) Testing
************************************

.. important:: * All CI checks must pass before a pull request can be merged.
               * The status (run and pass/fail) for all checks can be viewed by
                 clicking the appropriate link in the **checks** section of a
                 GitHub pull request.

The CI tools used by the RAJA project are:

  * **Azure Pipelines** runs builds and tests for Linux, Windows, and MacOS 
    environments using recent versions of various compilers. While we do GPU 
    builds for CUDA, HIP, and SYCL on Azure, RAJA tests are only run for 
    CPU-only pipelines. Docker container images we use for the Linux testing
    are maintained in the 
    `RSE Ops Project <https://github.com/rse-ops/docker-images>`_. Please see 
    the `RAJA Azure DevOps <https://dev.azure.com/llnl/RAJA>`_ project to learn 
    more about our testing there.

  * **GitLab** instances in the Collaboration Zone (CZ) of the Livermore 
    Computing (LC) Center run builds and tests in LC platform and compiler 
    environments important to many RAJA user applications. Execution of RAJA CI 

>     pipelines on LC GitLab resources has restrictions, which are  described 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipelines on LC GitLab resources has restrictions, which are described 
```

Continuous Integration (CI) Testing
************************************

.. important:: * All CI checks must pass before a pull request can be merged.
               * The status (running and pass/fail) for all checks can be 
                 viewed by clicking the appropriate link in the **checks** 
                 section of a GitHub pull request.

The CI tools used by the RAJA project are:

  * **Azure Pipelines** runs builds and tests for Linux, Windows, and MacOS 
    environments using recent versions of various compilers. While we do GPU 
    builds for CUDA, HIP, and SYCL on Azure, RAJA tests are only run for 
    CPU-only pipelines. Docker container images we use for the Linux testing
    are maintained in the 
    `RSE Ops Project <https://github.com/rse-ops/docker-images>`_. Please see 
    the `RAJA Azure DevOps <https://dev.azure.com/llnl/RAJA>`_ project to learn 
    more about our testing there.

  * **GitLab** instances in the Collaboration Zone (CZ) of the Livermore 

>     Computing (LC) Center run builds and tests in LC platform and compiler 
>     environments important to many RAJA user applications. Execution of RAJA CI 

Reviewer 2: It took me several tries to read the sentence the intended way, that is:
"run builds and test in (LC (platform & compiler)) environments."
I was reading:
"run builds and test in (LC platform) & (compiler environments)"
which sounded weird.
How about:
```suggestion
    Computing (LC) Center run builds and tests in environments combining LC platforms
    and compilers important to many RAJA user applications. Execution of RAJA CI
```

Author: I changed it to "Computing (LC) Center run builds and tests on LC HPC platforms using software stacks (compilers, etc.) important to many RAJA user applications."

Is that more clear?

Reviewer 2: Very clear.

    pipelines on LC GitLab resources has restrictions, which are described 
    below. If you have access to LC platforms, you can access additional 
    information about
    `LC GitLab CI <https://lc.llnl.gov/confluence/display/GITLAB/GitLab+CI>`_

The tools integrate with the RAJA GitHub project and automatically run RAJA 
builds and tests when a PR is created and when changes are pushed to a PR 

> branch.

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth adding a "note" stating that the GitLab CI synchronization, although automated, are asynchronous, which may cause delays?

Author: I don't think so. If there are any delays, they pale in comparison to jobs waiting in queues to start running.

If you think it's important to note, it probably should be noted in the RADIUSS shared CI documentation.

Reviewer 2: You are making a point.

Just a remark: While the mirroring is pending the GitLab checks will not appear in the list on GitHub, so you might have a PR seemingly passing all the checks because it is in fact waiting for the GitLab mirroring.

This is not crucial for RAJA because passing the GitLab check is required to merge.

The following sections describe basic elements of the operation of the CI tools.

.. _gitlab_ci-label:

=========
GitLab CI
=========

The GitLab CI instance used by the RAJA project lives in the Livermore 

> Computing (LC) Collaboration Zone (CZ). It runs builds and tests in LC 
> platform and compiler environments important to RAJA user applications at LLNL.

Reviewer 2: Again here,
```suggestion
Computing (LC) Collaboration Zone (CZ). It runs builds and tests in environments
combining LC platforms and compilers important to RAJA user applications at LLNL.
```

Author: I reworded this similar to what I posted above.

Constraints
-----------

Running GitLab CI on Livermore Computing (LC) platforms is constrained by LC 
security policies. The policies require that all members of a GitHub project 
be members of the LLNL GitHub organization and have two-factor authentication 
enabled on their GitHub accounts. When these requirements are satisfied, 
mirroring of a GitHub repo and triggering GitLab CI functionality from GitHub
can be done. Otherwise, LC GitLab CI checks will not be run for a project. 

> For a compliant LLNL GitHub project, such as RAJA, auto-mirroring of the 
> GitHub repo on LC GitLab is done when changes are pushed to PR branches in the 
> RAJA GitHub project. If you have access to LC platforms, you can learn more 
> about `LC GitLab mirroring <https://lc.llnl.gov/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=662832265>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a compliant LLNL GitHub project, such as RAJA, auto-mirroring of the 
GitHub repo on LC GitLab is done every 30 minutes at best, triggering tests
on new changes in RAJA GitHub project. If you have access to LC platforms,
you can learn more about `LC GitLab mirroring <https://lc.llnl.gov/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=662832265>`_.
```

Reviewer 2: I am actually investigating the 30 minute rule mentioned here. According to GitLab documentation, a change on GitHub could actually trigger a pipeline on GitLab... if the webhooks are set. And it seems they often are not, but I can’t check by myself on RAJA.

Author: We don't have webhooks set, but we do have GitLab and Azure checks required to pass before a PR can be merged. So you're saying that if we set webhooks for GitLab, it may start running sooner after changes are pushed to GitHub? If so, I'll look into that.

**GitLab CI will not run for a PR branch on a fork of the RAJA repo.** We 
manually manage contributions made on a fork of the RAJA repo using the 

> procedure described in :ref:`contributing-label`. 
> .. _gitlab_ci_workflow-label:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
procedure described in :ref:`contributing-label`.

.. _gitlab_ci_workflow-label:
```

Author: blank line added. Thanks for catching that.

GitLab CI (LC) Testing Workflow
--------------------------------------

The figure below shows the high-level steps in the RAJA GitLab CI testing 
process. The main steps, which we will discuss in more detail later, are:

  #. A *mirror* of the RAJA GitHub repo in the RAJA LC CZ GitLab project is 
     updated whenever the RAJA ``develop`` or ``main`` branches are changed 

>      as well as when any PR branch in the RAJA GitHub project is changed. 

Reviewer 2: Again, under investigation.

>      as well as when any PR branch in the RAJA GitHub project is changed. 

Author: I reworded this to align with your comment.

  #. GitLab launches CI test pipelines. While running, the execution and 
     pass/fail status may be viewed and monitored in the GitLab CI GUI
     or in the RAJA GitHub project checks section for a PR.
  #. For each platform and compiler combination,
     `Spack <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_ is used to generate a build 

>      configuration in the form of a CMake cache file, or *host-config* file.

Author: Changed.

     as when any PR branch in the RAJA GitHub project is changed. 
  #. Gitlab launches CI test pipelines. While running, the execution and 
     pass/fail status may be viewed and monitored in the Gitlab CI GUI.
  #. For each resource and compiler combination,
  #. A *mirror* of the RAJA GitHub repo in the RAJA LC CZ GitLab project is 
     updated whenever the RAJA ``develop`` or ``main`` branches are changed 
     as well as when any PR branch in the RAJA GitHub project is changed. 
  #. GitLab launches CI test pipelines. While running, the execution and 
     pass/fail status may be viewed and monitored in the GitLab CI GUI
     or in the RAJA GitHub project checks section for a PR.
  #. For each platform and compiler combination,
     `Spack <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_ is used to generate a build 
     configuration in the form of a CMake cache file, or *host-config* file.
  #. A host-config file is passed to CMake, which configures a RAJA build 
     space.  Then, RAJA and its tests are compiled.
  #. Next, the RAJA tests are run.
  #. When a test pipeline completes, final results are reported in Gitlab.

> 

Author: Done.

> 

Reviewer 2: @rhornung67 it looks like you replaced the last step. However your schema shows step 6 as being "job reports to Gitlab", but I was suggesting _adding_ a step (7) "Gitlab reports to Github".
In a nutshell: schema and items have diverged.

> 

Author: Got it. Thanks.

     the status of GitLab CI checks.

.. figure:: ./figures/RAJA-Gitlab-Workflow2.png

   The main steps in the RAJA GitLab CI testing workflow are shown in the 
   figure. This process is triggered when a developer makes a PR on the 
   GitHub project or whenever changes are pushed to the source branch of a PR.

Next, we describe the roles that external projects and files in the RAJA repo 
play in the RAJA GitLab CI workflow.

.. _gitlab_ci_depend-label:

GitLab CI Testing Dependencies (specific to LC CZ)
---------------------------------------------------

RAJA GitLab CI testing depends on several other projects that we share with
other projects. These include

  * `RADIUSS Shared CI <https://github.com/LLNL/radiuss-shared-ci>`_,
    a centralized framework for software testing with GitLab CI on LC
    machines. The project is developed on GitHub and is mirrored to the LC 
    CZ GitLab instance, where it is used by multiple projects.
  * `Spack <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_, a widely used
    multi-platform package manager that builds and installs software stacks.
  * `Uberenv <https://github.com/LLNL/uberenv>`_, a Python script

>     that helps to automate use of Spack and other tools for building third-party

Author: Fixed.

    dependencies. Uberenv is a submodule in RAJA that lives in
    ``RAJA/scripts/uberenv/``.
  * `RADIUSS Spack Configs <https://github.com/LLNL/radiuss-spack-configs>`_,
    a collection of build configurations used by Spack to generate host-config
    files for CMake. The build configurations are specific to LLNL LC 
    platforms and are used by multiple projects. It also contains Spack 
    packages for various projects, including RAJA. The RAJA Spack package is 
    maintained in this project. RADIUSS Spack Configs is a submodule in RAJA 
    that lives in ``RAJA/scripts/radiuss-spack-configs/``.

The relationships among these packages in a project that uses them is 
illustrated in the `RADIUSS Shared CI User Guide <https://radiuss-shared-ci.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sphinx/user_guide/index.html>`_. The guide also describes 
how the framework works and how to set up a project to use it.

In the next several sections, we describe files in the RAJA repo that are

> specific to the RAJA project.

Author: Changed

.. _gitlab_ci_files-label:

GitLab CI Testing Files (specific to LC CZ)
--------------------------------------------

The following figure shows directories and files in the RAJA project that 
support LC GitLab CI testing. 

.. figure:: ./figures/RAJA-Gitlab-Files.png

   The figure shows directories and files in the RAJA repo that support GitLab 
   CI testing. Files in blue are specific to RAJA and are maintained in the 
   RAJA repo. Red directories and files are in Git submodules that are 
   shared and maintained with other projects.

Briefly, these files play the following roles in our GitLab CI testing:

  * The ``RAJA/.gitlab-ci.yml`` file defines general information that applies

>     to all GitLab CI test jobs run by the RAJA project.

Author: changed.

  * The ``.uberenv_config.json`` file defines the Spack version we use, where 
    Spack packages live, etc.
  * Files in the ``RAJA/.gitlab`` directory define test pipelines that RAJA
    subscribes to an which are defined in the 
    `RADIUSS Shared CI <https://github.com/LLNL/radiuss-shared-ci>`_ project,
    as well as RAJA-specific jobs, and any job customization that we use,
    such as job time limits, etc. These files are customizations of templates 
    provided by `RADIUSS Shared CI <https://github.com/LLNL/radiuss-shared-ci>`_.
  * The ``RAJA/scripts/gitlab/build_and_test.sh`` file defines the RAJA build 
    and test process and commands that are run during it.

In the following sections, we discuss how these files are used in the 

> steps in the RAJA GitLab CI testing process summarized above.

Author: changed
